

CSIT 839 
Intermediate Programming using C/C++
Instructor: Jeff Kent
Structures - Programming Challenge - Cars
 
Part 1

Declare a structure named Car, which includes a union and an enum (enumerated type) that you also need to declare. This structure holds the following information about a car:

-model, a C-string that may have embedded spaces and up to 20 characters.
-year, an int.
-type (leased or purchased), an instance of an enum or a union (you decide) called transactionType, which represents whether the buyer is BUYING or leasing the car.
- PAYMENT, an instance of an enum or a union (you decide) called payType, which represents the MONTHLY PAYMENT (a double) in the case of a lease, or the purchase price (an int) in the case of a purchase.
 
Questions: Should the Car structure also should have one or more constructors? Same question for the union?

Part 2

Write code in main which will dynamically allocate an array of Car structure instances. The number of array elements is determined by the user. (See Sample Run #1 below).
 
Question: Which constructor or constructors will be invoked by this dynamic allocation of an array of Car structure instances? 

Part 3

A. Prototype and write a Car member function called assignValues. This function prompts for and assigns values to the member variables of a car. This function is called in main once for each car created in main. The arguments, if any, are up to you. 

B. Prototype and write a Car member function called displayValues. This function displays the values of he member variables of a car. This function is called in main once for each car created in main. The arguments, if any, are up to you. (See Sample Run #1 below).

Sample Run (with comments that would not be part of input or output)

ENTER the number of cars: 2  // may be a different number, but assume at least 2 - no input validation necessary

// code to dynamically create an array of Car instances, the number based on user input

// call in main the assignValues member function for each Car instance in the array

ENTERmodel name: Bummer
Enter model year: 1999
Lease (l or L) or Purchase (p or P): L
Enter MONTHLY PAYMENT: 175.87
 
Enter model name: Know Vah
Enter model year: 2003
Lease (l or L) or Purchase (p or P): p
Enter purchase price: 26589
 
// call in main the displayValues member function for each Car instance in the array
 
Model: Bummer
Year: 1999
Leased at $175.87

Model: Know Vah
Year: 2003
Purchased at $26589
 
Part 4
 
Declare another structure named Manufacturer, which represents the manufacturer of a car (like Toyota or Chevrolet). This structure holds the following information about a manufacturer:

-name, a C-string that may have embedded spaces and up to 20 characters.
-source, which indicates if the manufacturer is domestic (U.S.) or foreign.

One of these members is an enum or a union.
 
Add the following member functions to the Manufacturer structure:
assignValues so it also includes the input of information for the car's manufacturer.
displayValues so it also includes the output of information for the car's manufacturer.
Question: Should the Manufacturer structure also should have one or more constructors?
 
Part 5
 
Modify the Car structure so it includes an additional member variable, mfg, which is an instance of the Manufacturer structure.
 
Modify the following member functions in the Car structure: 
assignValues so it also calls the assignValues member function of Manufacturer.
displayValues so it also calls the displayValues member function of Manufacturer.
Question: If your Car structure has one or more constructors, how if at all should they be modified?
 
SAMPLERun

ENTER the NUMBER of cars in stock: 2

ENTER manufacturer name: Hyundai  // new input
Enter domestic (d or D) or foreign (f or F): f
Enter model name: Bummer
Enter model year: 1999
Lease (l or L) or PURCHASE (p or P): L
Enter MONTHLY PAYMENT: 175.87

Enter manufacturer name: Chevy // new input
Enter domestic (d or D) or foreign (f or F): D
Enter model name: Know Vah
Enter model year: 2003
Lease (l or L) or Purchase (p or P): p
Enter purchase price: 26589

Manufacturer: Hyundai  // new output
Source: Foreign  // new output
Model: Bummer
Year: 1999
Leased at $175.87

Manufacturer: Chevy  // new output
Source: Domestic  // new output
Model: Know Vah
Year: 2003
Purchased at $26589
 
 
 
 
 
 
