
CSIT 839 

Intermediate Programming using C/C++
 
Instructor: Jeff Kent

Final Exam Study Guide - Structures
 

 

The Final Exam will concern structures in addition to the material for which you were responsible on the first 3 midterms. You should know how to do the following: 

ɥeclare a Structure 


ɸrite functions to input values to member variables of a single structure instance. (See Structures - Introductory Examples, Example #1).


ɸrite member functions to input values to member variables of a single structure instance. (See Structures - Member Functions).


ɸrite functions to output values of member variables of a single structure instance. (See Structures - Introductory Examples, Example #1).


ɸrite member functions to output values of member variables of a single structure instance. (See Structures - Member Functions).


ɸrite functions to input values to member variables of an array of structure instances. (See  Structures - Introductory Examples, Example #2).


ɸrite functions to output values of member variables of an array of structure instances. (See  Structures - Introductory Examples, Example #2).


ɸrite member functions to input and output values to member variables of an array of structure instances. (Apply information in Structures - Member Functions). 


ɬnow how to declare and use an enum. (See  Structures - Introductory Examples, Example #3).


ɬnow how to declare and use a union. (See  Structures - Introductory Examples, Example #3).


ɬnow how to make an instance of one structure a member variable of another structure. (See  Structures - Introductory Examples, Examples #4-5).


ɬnow how to initialize member variables of a structure with default values when you declare an instance of that structure. (See Structures - Constructor, Programs #1-3).


ɬnow how to initialize member variables of a structure with user-provided values when you declare an instance of that structure. (See Structures - Constructor, Programs #4-5).


ɬnow how to make an array of structure instances a member variable of another structure. (See  Structures - Advanced Examples, Example #1).


ɬnow how to make a pointer to an array of structure instances (for dynamic memory allocation) a member variable of another structure. (See  Structures - Advanced Examples, Examples #2-3).


ɬnow how to use structures in place of numeric or character arrays. (To be discussed in class).


Textbook References (based on 8th Edition) 
  

Book Section  Description 
7.12 Structures 
8.12 Arrays of Objects (see Arrays of Structures towards end of section) 
10.11 Pointers to Class Objects and Structures (uses classes but principle same)  




 
